SECTION: Item 9C.    Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections
FILING DATE: 2024-11-01
COMPANY: Apple Inc. (AAPL)
ACCESSION: 0000320193-24-000123
================================================================================

27
Yes  ☐     No  ☒
The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant, as of March 29, 2024, the last business day of the Registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, was approximately $2,628,553,000,000. Solely for purposes of this disclosure, shares of common stock held by executive officers and directors of the Registrant as of such date have been excluded because such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of executive officers and directors as affiliates is not necessarily a conclusive determination for any other purposes.

35
Page
Part I                                                                                                                                       
Item 1.        Business                                                                                                                     1
Item 1A.       Risk Factors                                                                                                                 5
Item 1B.       Unresolved Staff Comments                                                                                                   17
Item 1C.       Cybersecurity                                                                                                               17
Item 2.        Properties                                                                                                                  18
Item 3.        Legal Proceedings                                                                                                           18
Item 4.        Mine Safety Disclosures                                                                                                     18
Part II                                                                                                                                      
Item 5.        Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities                19
Item 6.        [Reserved]                                                                                                                  20
Item 7.        Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations                                       21
Item 7A.       Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk                                                                  27
Item 8.        Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                                                                                 28
Item 9.        Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure                                        51
Item 9A.       Controls and Procedures                                                                                                     51
Item 9B.       Other Information                                                                                                           52
Item 9C.       Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections                                                         52
Part III                                                                                                                                     
Item 10.       Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance                                                                      52
Item 11.       Executive Compensation                                                                                                      52
Item 12.       Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters                              52
Item 13.       Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence                                                   52
Item 14.       Principal Accountant Fees and Services                                                                                      52
Part IV                                                                                                                                      
Item 15.       Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules                                                                                   53
Item 16.       Form 10-K Summary                                                                                                           56

36
This Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Form 10-K”) contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that involve risks and uncertainties. Many of the forward-looking statements are located in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K under the heading “Business” and Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. For example, statements in this Form 10-K regarding the potential future impact of macroeconomic conditions on the Company’s business and results of operations are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can also be identified by words such as “future,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “predicts,” “will,” “would,” “could,” “can,” “may,” and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the Company’s actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading “Risk Factors.” The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law.
Unless otherwise stated, all information presented herein is based on the Company’s fiscal calendar, and references to particular years, quarters, months or periods refer to the Company’s fiscal years ended in September and the associated quarters, months and periods of those fiscal years. Each of the terms the “Company” and “Apple” as used herein refers collectively to Apple Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated.

47
Segments
The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. The Company’s reportable segments consist of the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest of Asia Pacific. Americas includes both North and South America. Europe includes European countries, as well as India, the Middle East and Africa. Greater China includes China mainland, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Rest of Asia Pacific includes Australia and those Asian countries not included in the Company’s other reportable segments. Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one is managed separately to better align with the location of the Company’s customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics of each geographic region.
Markets and Distribution
The Company’s customers are primarily in the consumer, small and mid-sized business, education, enterprise and government markets. The Company sells its products and resells third-party products in most of its major markets directly to customers through its retail and online stores and its direct sales force. The Company also employs a variety of indirect distribution channels, such as third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers. During 2024, the Company’s net sales through its direct and indirect distribution channels accounted for 38% and 62%, respectively, of total net sales.
Competition
The markets for the Company’s products and services are highly competitive, and are characterized by aggressive price competition and resulting downward pressure on gross margins, frequent introduction of new products and services, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product price and performance characteristics, rapid adoption of technological advancements by competitors, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers and businesses. Many of the Company’s competitors seek to compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures, and by imitating the Company’s products and infringing on its intellectual property.
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 2


The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends heavily on ensuring the continuing and timely introduction of innovative new products, services and technologies to the marketplace. The Company designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications and related services. Principal competitive factors important to the Company include price, product and service features (including security features), relative price and performance, product and service quality and reliability, design innovation, a strong third-party software and accessories ecosystem, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, and corporate reputation.
The Company is focused on expanding its market opportunities related to smartphones, personal computers, tablets, wearables and accessories, and services. The Company faces substantial competition in these markets from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, as well as established hardware, software, and service offerings with large customer bases. In addition, some of the Company’s competitors have broader product lines, lower-priced products and a larger installed base of active devices. Competition has been particularly intense as competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. Certain competitors have the resources, experience or cost structures to provide products at little or no profit or even at a loss. The Company’s services compete with business models that provide content to users for free and use illegitimate means to obtain third-party digital content and applications. The Company faces significant competition as competitors imitate the Company’s product features and applications within their products, or collaborate to offer integrated solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer.
Supply of Components
Although most components essential to the Company’s business are generally available from multiple sources, certain components are currently obtained from single or limited sources. The Company also competes for various components with other participants in the markets for smartphones, personal computers, tablets, wearables and accessories. Therefore, many components used by the Company, including those that are available from multiple sources, are at times subject to industry-wide shortage and significant commodity pricing fluctuations.
The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used by its competitors, and new products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured or their manufacturing capacities have increased. The continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if suppliers decide to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Company’s requirements.
The Company has entered into agreements for the supply of many components; however, there can be no guarantee that the Company will be able to extend or renew these agreements on similar terms, or at all.
Research and Development
Because the industries in which the Company competes are characterized by rapid technological advances, the Company’s ability to compete successfully depends heavily upon its ability to ensure a continual and timely flow of competitive products, services and technologies to the marketplace. The Company continues to develop new technologies to enhance existing products and services, and to expand the range of its offerings through research and development (“R&D”), licensing of intellectual property and acquisition of third-party businesses and technology.
Intellectual Property
The Company currently holds a broad collection of intellectual property rights relating to certain aspects of its hardware, accessories, software and services. This includes patents, designs, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other forms of intellectual property rights in the U.S. and various foreign countries. Although the Company believes the ownership of such intellectual property rights is an important factor in differentiating its business and that its success does depend in part on such ownership, the Company relies primarily on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of its personnel.
The Company regularly files patent, design, copyright and trademark applications to protect innovations arising from its research, development, design and marketing, and is currently pursuing thousands of applications around the world. Over time, the Company has accumulated a large portfolio of issued and registered intellectual property rights around the world. No single intellectual property right is solely responsible for protecting the Company’s products and services. The Company believes the duration of its intellectual property rights is adequate relative to the expected lives of its products and services.
In addition to Company-owned intellectual property, many of the Company’s products and services are designed to include intellectual property owned by third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of the Company’s products, processes and services. While the Company has generally been able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms in the past, there is no guarantee that such licenses could be obtained in the future on reasonable terms or at all.
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 3

55
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 9


The Company’s future performance depends in part on support from third-party software developers.
The Company believes decisions by customers to purchase its hardware products depend in part on the availability of third-party software applications and services. There can be no assurance third-party developers will continue to develop and maintain software applications and services for the Company’s products. If third-party software applications and services cease to be developed and maintained for the Company’s products, customers may choose not to buy the Company’s products.
The Company believes the availability of third-party software applications and services for its products depends in part on the developers’ perception and analysis of the relative benefits of developing, maintaining and upgrading such software and services for the Company’s products compared to competitors’ platforms, such as Android for smartphones and tablets, Windows for personal computers and tablets, and PlayStation, Nintendo and Xbox for gaming platforms. This analysis may be based on factors such as the market position of the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may be generated, expected future growth of product sales, and the costs of developing such applications and services.
The Company’s minority market share in the global smartphone, personal computer and tablet markets can make developers less inclined to develop or upgrade software for the Company’s products and more inclined to devote their resources to developing and upgrading software for competitors’ products with larger market share. When developers focus their efforts on these competing platforms, the availability and quality of applications for the Company’s devices can suffer.
The Company relies on the continued availability and development of compelling and innovative software applications for its products. The Company’s products and operating systems are subject to rapid technological change, and when third-party developers are unable to or choose not to keep up with this pace of change, their applications can fail to take advantage of these changes to deliver improved customer experiences, can operate incorrectly, and can result in dissatisfied customers and lower customer demand for the Company’s products.
The Company distributes third-party applications for its products through the App Store. For the vast majority of applications, developers keep all of the revenue they generate on the App Store. Where applicable, the Company retains a commission from sales of applications and sales of digital services or goods initiated within an application. From time to time, the Company has made changes to its products and services, including taking actions in response to litigation, competition, market conditions and legal and regulatory requirements, and expects to make further business changes in the future. For example, in the U.S., the Company has implemented changes to how developers communicate with consumers within apps on the U.S. storefront of the iOS and iPadOS App Store regarding alternative purchasing mechanisms. The Company has also implemented changes to iOS, iPadOS, the App Store and Safari® in the European Union (“EU”) as it seeks to comply with the Digital Markets Act (the “DMA”), including new business terms and alternative fee structures for iOS and iPadOS apps, alternative methods of distribution for iOS and iPadOS apps, alternative payment processing for apps across the Company’s operating systems, and additional tools and application programming interfaces (“APIs”) for developers. Changes to the Company’s products and services could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition, including if such business changes result in reduced App Store or other sales, reductions in the rate of the commission that the Company retains on such sales, or if the rate of the commission is otherwise narrowed in scope or eliminated.
Failure to obtain or create digital content that appeals to the Company’s customers, or to make such content available on commercially reasonable terms, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition.
The Company contracts with numerous third parties to offer their digital content to customers. This includes the right to sell, or offer subscriptions to, third-party content, as well as the right to incorporate specific content into the Company’s own services. The licensing or other distribution arrangements for this content can be for relatively short time periods and do not guarantee the continuation or renewal of these arrangements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Some third-party content providers and distributors currently or in the future may offer competing products and services, and can take actions to make it difficult or impossible for the Company to license or otherwise distribute their content. Other content owners, providers or distributors may seek to limit the Company’s access to, or increase the cost of, such content. The Company may be unable to continue to offer a wide variety of content at commercially reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules.
The Company also produces its own digital content, which can be costly to produce due to intense and increasing competition for talent, content and subscribers, and may fail to appeal to the Company’s customers.
Some third-party digital content providers require the Company to provide digital rights management and other security solutions. If requirements change, the Company may have to develop or license new technology to provide these solutions. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to develop or license such solutions at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner.
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 10


The Company’s success depends largely on the talents and efforts of its team members, the continued service and availability of highly skilled employees, including key personnel, and the Company’s ability to nurture its distinctive and inclusive culture.
Much of the Company’s future success depends on the talents and efforts of its team members and the continued availability and service of key personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, executive team and other highly skilled employees. Experienced personnel in the technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, especially in Silicon Valley, where most of the Company’s key personnel are located. In addition to intense competition for talent, workforce dynamics are constantly evolving. If the Company does not manage changing workforce dynamics effectively, it could materially adversely affect the Company’s culture, reputation and operational flexibility.
The Company believes that its distinctive and inclusive culture is a significant driver of its success. If the Company is unable to nurture its culture, it could materially adversely affect the Company’s ability to recruit and retain the highly skilled employees who are critical to its success, and could otherwise materially adversely affect the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.

56
The Company depends on the performance of carriers, wholesalers, retailers and other resellers.
The Company distributes its products and certain of its services through cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers, many of which distribute products and services from competitors. The Company also sells its products and services and resells third-party products in most of its major markets directly to consumers, small and mid-sized businesses, and education, enterprise and government customers through its retail and online stores and its direct sales force.
Some carriers providing cellular network service for the Company’s products offer financing, installment payment plans or subsidies for users’ purchases of the device. There can be no assurance such offers will be continued at all or in the same amounts.
The Company has invested and will continue to invest in programs to enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers’ stores with Company employees and contractors, and improving product placement displays. These programs can require a substantial investment while not assuring return or incremental sales. The financial condition of these resellers could weaken, these resellers could stop distributing the Company’s products, or uncertainty regarding demand for some or all of the Company’s products could cause resellers to reduce their ordering and marketing of the Company’s products.
The Company’s business and reputation are impacted by information technology system failures and network disruptions.
The Company and its global supply chain are dependent on complex information technology systems and are exposed to information technology system failures or network disruptions caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, ransomware or other cybersecurity incidents, or other events or disruptions. System upgrades, redundancy and other continuity measures may be ineffective or inadequate, and the Company’s or its vendors’ business continuity and disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures or disruptions can adversely impact the Company’s business by, among other things, preventing access to the Company’s online services, interfering with customer transactions or impeding the manufacturing and shipping of the Company’s products. These events could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.
Losses or unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information, including personal information, could subject the Company to significant reputational, financial, legal and operational consequences.
The Company’s business requires it to use and store confidential information, including personal information with respect to the Company’s customers and employees. The Company devotes significant resources to systems and data security, including through the use of encryption and other security measures intended to protect its systems and data. But these measures cannot provide absolute security, and losses or unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information occur and could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.
The Company’s business also requires it to share confidential information with suppliers and other third parties. The Company relies on global suppliers that are also exposed to ransomware and other malicious attacks that can disrupt business operations. Although the Company takes steps to secure confidential information that is provided to or accessible by third parties working on the Company’s behalf, such measures are not always effective and losses or unauthorized access to, or releases of, confidential information occur. Such incidents and other malicious attacks could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.

57
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 11


The Company experiences malicious attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to its systems on a regular basis. These attacks seek to compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of confidential information or disrupt normal business operations, and can, among other things, impair the Company’s ability to attract and retain customers for its products and services, impact the Company’s stock price, materially damage commercial relationships, and expose the Company to litigation or government investigations, which can result in penalties, fines or judgments against the Company. Globally, attacks are expected to continue accelerating in both frequency and sophistication with increasing use by actors of tools and techniques that are designed to circumvent controls, avoid detection, and remove or obfuscate forensic evidence, all of which hinders the Company’s ability to identify, investigate and recover from incidents. In addition, attacks against the Company and its customers can escalate during periods of geopolitical tensions or conflict.
Although malicious attacks perpetrated to gain access to confidential information, including personal information, affect many companies across various industries, the Company is at a relatively greater risk of being targeted because of its high profile and the value of the confidential information it creates, owns, manages, stores and processes.
The Company has implemented systems and processes intended to secure its information technology systems and prevent unauthorized access to or loss of sensitive data, and mitigate the impact of unauthorized access, including through the use of encryption and authentication technologies. As with all companies, these security measures may not be sufficient for all eventualities and are vulnerable to hacking, ransomware attacks, employee error, malfeasance, system error, faulty password management or other irregularities. For example, third parties can fraudulently induce the Company’s or its suppliers’ and other third parties’ employees or customers into disclosing usernames, passwords or other sensitive information, which can, in turn, be used for unauthorized access to the Company’s or such suppliers’ or third parties’ systems and services. To help protect customers and the Company, the Company deploys and makes available technologies like multifactor authentication, monitors its services and systems for unusual activity and may freeze accounts under suspicious circumstances, which, among other things, can result in the delay or loss of customer orders or impede customer access to the Company’s products and services.
While the Company maintains insurance coverage that is intended to address certain aspects of data security risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise.
Investment in new business strategies and acquisitions could disrupt the Company’s ongoing business, present risks not originally contemplated and materially adversely affect the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.
The Company has invested, and in the future may invest, in new business strategies or acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, greater-than-expected liabilities and expenses, economic, political, legal and regulatory challenges associated with operating in new businesses, regions or countries, inadequate return on capital, potential impairment of tangible and intangible assets, and significant write-offs. Investment and acquisition transactions are exposed to additional risks, including failing to obtain required regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all, or the imposition of onerous conditions that could delay or prevent the Company from completing a transaction or otherwise limit the Company’s ability to fully realize the anticipated benefits of a transaction. These new ventures are inherently risky and may not be successful. The failure of any significant investment could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.

60
Legal and Regulatory Compliance Risks
The Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted by unfavorable results of legal proceedings or government investigations.
The Company is subject to various claims, legal proceedings and government investigations that have arisen in the ordinary course of business and have not yet been fully resolved, and new matters may arise in the future. In addition, agreements entered into by the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions which can subject the Company to costs and damages in the event of a claim against an indemnified third party. The number of claims, legal proceedings and government investigations involving the Company, and the alleged magnitude of such claims, proceedings and government investigations, has generally increased over time and may continue to increase.
The Company has faced and continues to face a significant number of patent claims relating to its cellular-enabled products, and new claims may arise in the future, including as a result of new legal or regulatory frameworks. For example, technology and other patent-holding companies frequently assert their patents and seek royalties and often enter into litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. The Company is vigorously defending infringement actions in courts in several U.S. jurisdictions, as well as internationally in various countries. The plaintiffs in these actions frequently seek broad injunctive relief and substantial damages.
Regardless of the merit of particular claims, defending against litigation or responding to government investigations can be expensive, time-consuming and disruptive to the Company’s operations. In recognition of these considerations, the Company may enter into agreements or other arrangements to settle litigation and resolve such challenges. There can be no assurance such agreements can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. These agreements can also significantly increase the Company’s cost of sales and operating expenses and require the Company to change its business practices and limit the Company’s ability to offer certain products and services.
The outcome of litigation or government investigations is inherently uncertain. If one or more legal matters were resolved against the Company or an indemnified third party in a reporting period for amounts above management’s expectations, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected. Further, such an outcome can result in significant monetary damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief against the Company, and has from time to time required, and can in the future require, the Company to change its business practices and limit the Company’s ability to develop, manufacture, use, import or offer for sale certain products and services, all of which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.
While the Company maintains insurance coverage for certain types of claims, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise.
The Company is subject to complex and changing laws and regulations worldwide, which exposes the Company to potential liabilities, increased costs and other adverse effects on the Company’s business.
The Company’s global operations are subject to complex and changing laws and regulations on subjects, including antitrust; privacy, data security and data localization; consumer protection; advertising, sales, billing and e-commerce; financial services and technology; product liability; intellectual property ownership and infringement; digital platforms; machine learning and artificial intelligence; internet, telecommunications and mobile communications; media, television, film and digital content; availability of third-party software applications and services; labor and employment; anticorruption; import, export and trade; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; anti–money laundering; foreign ownership and investment; tax; and environmental, health and safety, including electronic waste, recycling, product design and climate change.
Compliance with these laws and regulations is onerous and expensive. New and changing laws and regulations can adversely affect the Company’s business by increasing the Company’s costs, limiting the Company’s ability to offer a product, service or feature to customers, imposing changes to the design of the Company’s products and services, impacting customer demand for the Company’s products and services, and requiring changes to the Company’s business or supply chain. New and changing laws and regulations can also create uncertainty about how such laws and regulations will be interpreted and applied. These risks and costs may increase as the Company’s products and services are introduced into specialized applications, including health and financial services, or as the Company expands the use of technologies, such as machine learning and artificial intelligence features, and must navigate new legal, regulatory and ethical considerations relating to such technologies. The Company has implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance the Company’s employees, contractors or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or the Company’s policies and procedures. If the Company is found to have violated laws and regulations, it could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 13


Regulatory changes and other actions that materially adversely affect the Company’s business may be announced with little or no advance notice and the Company may not be able to effectively mitigate all adverse impacts from such measures. For example, the Company is subject to changing regulations relating to the export and import of its products. Although the Company has programs, policies and procedures in place that are designed to satisfy regulatory requirements, there can be no assurance that such policies and procedures will be effective in preventing a violation or a claim of a violation. As a result, the Company’s products could be banned, delayed or prohibited from importation, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.
Expectations relating to environmental, social and governance considerations and related reporting obligations expose the Company to potential liabilities, increased costs, reputational harm, and other adverse effects on the Company’s business.
Many governments, regulators, investors, employees, customers and other stakeholders are increasingly focused on environmental, social and governance considerations relating to businesses, including climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, human and civil rights, and diversity, equity and inclusion. In addition, the Company makes statements about its goals and initiatives through its various non-financial reports, information provided on its website, press statements and other communications. Responding to these environmental, social and governance considerations and implementation of the Company’s announced goals and initiatives involves risks and uncertainties, requires investments, and depends in part on third-party performance or data that is outside the Company’s control. The Company cannot guarantee that it will achieve its announced environmental, social and governance goals and initiatives. In addition, some stakeholders may disagree with the Company’s goals and initiatives. Any failure, or perceived failure, by the Company to achieve its goals, further its initiatives, adhere to its public statements, comply with federal, state and international environmental, social and governance laws and regulations, or meet evolving and varied stakeholder expectations and standards could result in legal and regulatory proceedings against the Company and materially adversely affect the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price.
The technology industry, including, in some instances, the Company, is subject to intense media, political and regulatory scrutiny, which exposes the Company to increasing regulation, government investigations, legal actions and penalties.
From time to time, the Company has made changes to its App Store, including actions taken in response to litigation, competition, market conditions and legal and regulatory requirements. The Company expects to make further business changes in the future. For example, in the U.S. the Company has implemented changes to how developers communicate with consumers within apps on the U.S. storefront of the iOS and iPadOS App Store regarding alternative purchasing mechanisms.
The Company has also implemented changes to iOS, iPadOS, the App Store and Safari in the EU as it seeks to comply with the DMA, including new business terms and alternative fee structures for iOS and iPadOS apps, alternative methods of distribution for iOS and iPadOS apps, alternative payment processing for apps across the Company’s operating systems, and additional tools and APIs for developers. The Company has also continued to make changes to its compliance plan in response to feedback and engagement with the European Commission (the “Commission”). Although the Company’s compliance plan is intended to address the DMA’s obligations, it has been challenged by the Commission and may be challenged further by private litigants. The DMA provides for significant fines and penalties for noncompliance, and other jurisdictions may seek to require the Company to make changes to its business. While the changes introduced by the Company in the EU are intended to reduce new privacy and security risks that the DMA poses to EU users, many risks will remain.
The Company is also currently subject to antitrust investigations and litigation in various jurisdictions around the world, which can result in legal proceedings and claims against the Company that could, individually or in the aggregate, have a materially adverse impact on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, the Company is subject to civil antitrust lawsuits in the U.S. alleging monopolization or attempted monopolization in the markets for “performance smartphones” and “smartphones” generally in violation of U.S. antitrust laws. In addition, the Company is the subject of investigations in Europe and other jurisdictions relating to App Store terms and conditions. If such investigations or litigation are resolved against the Company, the Company can be exposed to significant fines and may be required to make further changes to its business practices, all of which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.
Further, the Company has commercial relationships with other companies in the technology industry that are or may become subject to investigations and litigation that, if resolved against those other companies, could materially adversely affect the Company’s commercial relationships with those business partners and materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, the Company earns revenue from licensing arrangements with Google LLC and other companies to offer their search services on the Company’s platforms and applications, and certain of these arrangements are currently subject to government investigations and legal proceedings.
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 14


There can be no assurance the Company’s business will not be materially adversely affected, individually or in the aggregate, by the outcomes of such investigations, litigation or changes to laws and regulations in the future. Changes to the Company’s business practices to comply with new laws and regulations or in connection with other legal proceedings can negatively impact the reputation of the Company’s products for privacy and security and otherwise adversely affect the experience for users of the Company’s products and services, and result in harm to the Company’s reputation, loss of competitive advantage, poor market acceptance, reduced demand for products and services, and lost sales.

61
The Company’s business is subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws, rules, policies and other obligations regarding data protection.
The Company is subject to an increasing number of federal, state and international laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of various types of personal information. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also restrict transfers of personal information among the Company and its international subsidiaries. Several jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and additional jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions or have laws that are pending. These laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Complying with emerging and changing requirements causes the Company to incur substantial costs and has required and may in the future require the Company to change its business practices. Noncompliance could result in significant penalties or legal liability.
The Company makes statements about its use and disclosure of personal information through its privacy policy, information provided on its website, press statements and other privacy notices provided to customers. Any failure by the Company to comply with these public statements or with federal, state or international privacy or data protection laws and regulations could result in inquiries or proceedings against the Company by governmental entities or others. In addition to reputational impacts, penalties could include ongoing audit requirements and significant legal liability.
In addition to the risks generally relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personal information, the Company is also subject to specific obligations relating to information considered sensitive under applicable laws, such as health data, financial data and biometric data. Health data and financial data are subject to additional privacy, security and breach notification requirements, and the Company is subject to audit by governmental authorities regarding the Company’s compliance with these obligations. If the Company fails to adequately comply with these rules and requirements, or if health data or financial data is handled in a manner not permitted by law or under the Company’s agreements with healthcare or financial institutions, the Company can be subject to litigation or government investigations, and can be liable for associated investigatory expenses, and can also incur significant fees or fines.
Payment card data is also subject to additional requirements. Under payment card rules and obligations, if cardholder information is potentially compromised, the Company can be liable for associated investigatory expenses and can also incur significant fees or fines if the Company fails to follow payment card industry data security standards. The Company could also experience a significant increase in payment card transaction costs or lose the ability to process payment cards if it fails to follow payment card industry data security standards, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.

62
Financial Risks
The Company expects its quarterly net sales and results of operations to fluctuate.
The Company’s profit margins vary across its products, services, geographic segments and distribution channels. For example, the gross margins on the Company’s products and services vary significantly and can change over time. The Company’s gross margins are subject to volatility and downward pressure due to a variety of factors, including: continued industry-wide global product pricing pressures and product pricing actions that the Company may take in response to such pressures; increased competition; the Company’s ability to effectively stimulate demand for certain of its products and services; compressed product life cycles; supply shortages; potential increases in the cost of components, outside manufacturing services, and developing, acquiring and delivering content for the Company’s services; the Company’s ability to manage product quality and warranty costs effectively; shifts in the mix of products and services, or in the geographic, currency or channel mix, including to the extent that regulatory changes require the Company to modify its product and service offerings; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; inflation and other macroeconomic pressures; and the introduction of new products or services, including new products or services with lower profit margins. These and other factors could have a materially adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.
The Company has historically experienced higher net sales in its first quarter compared to other quarters in its fiscal year due in part to seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product and service introductions can significantly impact net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses. Further, the Company generates a significant portion of its net sales from a single product and a decline in demand for that product could significantly impact quarterly net sales. The Company could also be subject to unexpected developments, such as lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company’s products or services, issues with new product or service introductions, information technology system failures or network disruptions, or failure of one of the Company’s logistics, supply or manufacturing partners.
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 15


The Company’s financial performance is subject to risks associated with changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to local currencies.
The Company’s primary exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates relates to non–U.S. dollar–denominated sales, cost of sales and operating expenses worldwide. Gross margins on the Company’s products in foreign countries and on products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers have in the past been adversely affected and could in the future be materially adversely affected by foreign exchange rate fluctuations.
The weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar adversely affects the U.S. dollar value of the Company’s foreign currency–denominated sales and earnings, and generally leads the Company to raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for the Company’s products. In some circumstances, for competitive or other reasons, the Company may decide not to raise international pricing to offset the U.S. dollar’s strengthening, which would adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of the gross margins the Company earns on foreign currency–denominated sales.
Conversely, a strengthening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, while generally beneficial to the Company’s foreign currency–denominated sales and earnings, could cause the Company to reduce international pricing or incur losses on its foreign currency derivative instruments, thereby limiting the benefit. Additionally, strengthening of foreign currencies may increase the Company’s cost of product components denominated in those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins.
The Company uses derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward and option contracts, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not be effective to offset any, or more than a portion, of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place.

63
The Company is exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the values of its investment portfolio.
The Company’s investments can be negatively affected by changes in liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results, market and economic conditions, political risk, sovereign risk, interest rate fluctuations or other factors. As a result, the value and liquidity of the Company’s cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities may fluctuate substantially. Although the Company has not realized significant losses on its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could result in significant losses and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.
The Company is exposed to credit risk on its trade accounts receivable, vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related to long-term supply agreements, and this risk is heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen.
The Company distributes its products and certain of its services through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers. The Company also sells its products and services directly to small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. A substantial majority of the Company’s outstanding trade receivables are not covered by collateral, third-party bank support or financing arrangements, or credit insurance, and a significant portion of the Company’s trade receivables can be concentrated within cellular network carriers or other resellers. The Company’s exposure to credit and collectibility risk on its trade receivables is higher in certain international markets and its ability to mitigate such risks may be limited. The Company also has unsecured vendor non-trade receivables resulting from purchases of components by outsourcing partners and other vendors that manufacture subassemblies or assemble final products for the Company. In addition, the Company has made prepayments associated with long-term supply agreements to secure supply of inventory components. As of September 28, 2024, the Company’s vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related to long-term supply agreements were concentrated among a few individual vendors located primarily in Asia. While the Company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and vendor non-trade receivables, as well as long-term prepayments, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses.
The Company is subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation and exposure to additional tax liabilities.
The Company is subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including Ireland and Singapore, where a number of the Company’s subsidiaries are organized. Due to economic and political conditions, tax laws and tax rates for income taxes and other non-income taxes in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. For example, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development continues to advance proposals for modernizing international tax rules, including the introduction of global minimum tax standards. The Company’s effective tax rates are affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the introduction of new taxes, and changes in tax laws or their interpretation. The application of tax laws may be uncertain, require significant judgment and be subject to differing interpretations.

66
Item 1C.    Cybersecurity
The Company’s management, led by its Head of Corporate Information Security, has overall responsibility for identifying, assessing and managing any material risks from cybersecurity threats. The Company’s Head of Corporate Information Security leads a dedicated Information Security team of highly skilled individuals with experience across industries that, among other things, develops and distributes information security policies, standards and procedures; engages in employee cybersecurity training; implements security controls; assesses security risk and compliance posture; monitors and responds to security events; and executes security testing and assessments. The Company’s Head of Corporate Information Security has extensive knowledge and skills gained from over 25 years of experience in the cybersecurity industry, including serving in leadership positions at other large technology companies and leading the Company’s Information Security team since 2016.
The Company’s Information Security team coordinates with teams across the Company to prevent, respond to and manage security incidents, and engages third parties, as appropriate, to assess, test or otherwise assist with aspects of its security processes and incident response. A dedicated Supplier Trust team manages information security risks the Company is exposed to through its supplier relationships. The Company has processes to log, track, address, and escalate for further assessment and report, as appropriate, cybersecurity incidents across the Company and its suppliers to senior management and the Audit and Finance Committee (the “Audit Committee”) of the Board. The Company’s enterprise risk management program is designed to identify, assess, and monitor the Company’s business risks, including financial, operational, compliance and reputational risks, and reflects management’s assessment of cybersecurity risks.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in the oversight and monitoring of cybersecurity matters. The Audit Committee regularly reviews and discusses the Company’s cybersecurity risks with management, including the Company’s Head of Corporate Information Security, its General Counsel and the Heads of Compliance and Business Conduct, Business Assurance, and Internal Audit, and receives updates, as necessary, regarding cybersecurity incidents. The Chair of the Audit Committee regularly reports the substance of such reviews and discussions to the Board, as necessary, and recommends to the Board such actions as the Audit Committee deems appropriate.

70
Item 3.    Legal Proceedings
Digital Markets Act Investigations
On March 25, 2024, the Commission announced that it had opened two formal noncompliance investigations against the Company under the DMA. The Commission’s investigations concern (1) Article 5(4) of the DMA, which relates to how developers may communicate and promote offers to end users for apps distributed through the App Store as well as how developers may conclude contracts with those end users; and (2) Article 6(3) of the DMA, which relates to default settings, uninstallation of apps, and a web browser choice screen on iOS. On June 24, 2024, the Commission announced its preliminary findings in the Article 5(4) investigation alleging that the Company’s App Store rules are in breach of the DMA and announced that it had opened a third formal investigation against the Company regarding whether the Company’s new contractual requirements for third-party app developers and app marketplaces may violate the DMA. If the Commission makes a final determination that there has been a violation, it can issue a cease and desist order and may impose fines up to 10% of the Company’s annual worldwide net sales. Although any decision by the Commission can be appealed to the General Court of the EU, the effectiveness of the Commission’s order would apply immediately while the appeal is pending, unless a stay of the order is granted. The Company believes that it complies with the DMA and has continued to make changes to its compliance plan in response to feedback and engagement with the Commission.
Department of Justice Lawsuit
On March 21, 2024, the U.S. Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) and a number of state and district attorneys general filed a civil antitrust lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey against the Company alleging monopolization or attempted monopolization in the markets for “performance smartphones” and “smartphones” in violation of U.S. antitrust laws. The DOJ is seeking equitable relief to redress the alleged anticompetitive behavior. In addition, various civil litigation matters have been filed in state and federal courts in the U.S. alleging similar violations of U.S. antitrust laws and seeking monetary damages and other nonmonetary relief. The Company believes it has substantial defenses and intends to vigorously defend itself.
Epic Games
Epic Games, Inc. (“Epic”) filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California (the “California District Court”) against the Company alleging violations of federal and state antitrust laws and California’s unfair competition law based upon the Company’s operation of its App Store. The California District Court found that certain provisions of the Company’s App Store Review Guidelines violate California’s unfair competition law and issued an injunction enjoining the Company from prohibiting developers from including in their apps external links that direct customers to purchasing mechanisms other than Apple in-app purchasing. The injunction applies to apps on the U.S. storefront of the iOS and iPadOS App Store. On January 16, 2024, the Company implemented a plan to comply with the injunction and filed a statement of compliance with the California District Court. A motion by Epic disputing the Company’s compliance plan and seeking to enforce the injunction, which the Company has opposed, is pending before the California District Court. On September 30, 2024, the Company filed a motion with the California District Court to narrow or vacate the injunction. The Company believes it has substantial defenses and intends to vigorously defend itself.
Other Legal Proceedings
The Company is subject to other legal proceedings and claims that have not been fully resolved and that have arisen in the ordinary course of business. The Company settled certain matters during the fourth quarter of 2024 that did not individually or in the aggregate have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition or operating results. The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain. If one or more legal matters were resolved against the Company in a reporting period for amounts above management’s expectations, the Company’s financial condition and operating results for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected.

96
Greater China
Greater China net sales decreased during 2024 compared to 2023 due primarily to lower net sales of iPhone and iPad. The weakness in the renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable year-over-year impact on Greater China net sales during 2024.
Japan
Japan net sales increased during 2024 compared to 2023 due primarily to higher net sales of iPhone. The weakness in the yen relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable year-over-year impact on Japan net sales during 2024.
Rest of Asia Pacific
Rest of Asia Pacific net sales increased during 2024 compared to 2023 due primarily to higher net sales of Services. The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had a net unfavorable year-over-year impact on Rest of Asia Pacific net sales during 2024.
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 22

106
Products Gross Margin
Products gross margin and Products gross margin percentage increased during 2024 compared to 2023 due to cost savings, partially offset by a different Products mix and the weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar.
Services Gross Margin
Services gross margin increased during 2024 compared to 2023 due primarily to higher Services net sales.
Services gross margin percentage increased during 2024 compared to 2023 due to a different Services mix.
The Company’s future gross margins can be impacted by a variety of factors, as discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading “Risk Factors.” As a result, the Company believes, in general, gross margins will be subject to volatility and downward pressure.
Operating Expenses
Operating expenses for 2024, 2023 and 2022 were as follows (dollars in millions):

113
The Company’s effective tax rate for 2024 was higher than the statutory federal income tax rate due primarily to a one-time income tax charge of $10.2 billion, net, related to the State Aid Decision (refer to Note 7, “Income Taxes” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) and state income taxes, partially offset by a lower effective tax rate on foreign earnings, the impact of the U.S. federal R&D credit, and tax benefits from share-based compensation.
The Company’s effective tax rate for 2024 was higher compared to 2023 due primarily to a one-time income tax charge of $10.2 billion, net, related to the State Aid Decision, a higher effective tax rate on foreign earnings and lower tax benefits from share-based compensation.

118
Income Taxes
In December 2023, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2023-09, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures (“ASU 2023-09”), which will require the Company to disclose specified additional information in its income tax rate reconciliation and provide additional information for reconciling items that meet a quantitative threshold. ASU 2023-09 will also require the Company to disaggregate its income taxes paid disclosure by federal, state and foreign taxes, with further disaggregation required for significant individual jurisdictions. The Company will adopt ASU 2023-09 in its fourth quarter of 2026 using a prospective transition method.
Segment Reporting
In November 2023, the FASB issued ASU No. 2023-07, Segment Reporting (Topic 280): Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures (“ASU 2023-07”), which will require the Company to disclose segment expenses that are significant and regularly provided to the Company’s chief operating decision maker (“CODM”). In addition, ASU 2023-07 will require the Company to disclose the title and position of its CODM and how the CODM uses segment profit or loss information in assessing segment performance and deciding how to allocate resources. The Company will adopt ASU 2023-07 in its fourth quarter of 2025 using a retrospective transition method.
Critical Accounting Estimates
The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and the Company’s discussion and analysis of its financial condition and operating results require the Company’s management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities.
Uncertain Tax Positions
The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The evaluation of the Company’s uncertain tax positions involves significant judgment in the interpretation and application of GAAP and complex domestic and international tax laws, including the TCJA and the allocation of international taxation rights between countries. Although management believes the Company’s reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of these uncertainties will not be different from that reflected in the Company’s reserves. Reserves are adjusted considering changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax examination. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with management’s expectations could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results.
Legal and Other Contingencies
The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, the outcomes of which are inherently uncertain. The Company records a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable, the determination of which requires significant judgment. Resolution of legal matters in a manner inconsistent with management’s expectations could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results.
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 26

119
Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
The Company is exposed to economic risk from interest rates and foreign exchange rates. The Company uses various strategies to manage these risks; however, they may still impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
Interest Rate Risk
The Company is primarily exposed to fluctuations in U.S. interest rates and their impact on the Company’s investment portfolio and term debt. Increases in interest rates will negatively affect the fair value of the Company’s investment portfolio and increase the interest expense on the Company’s term debt. To protect against interest rate risk, the Company may use derivative instruments, offset interest rate–sensitive assets and liabilities, or control duration of the investment and term debt portfolios.
The following table sets forth potential impacts on the Company’s investment portfolio and term debt, including the effects of any associated derivatives, that would result from a hypothetical increase in relevant interest rates as of September 28, 2024 and September 30, 2023 (dollars in millions):

121
Foreign Exchange Rate Risk
The Company’s exposure to foreign exchange rate risk relates primarily to the Company being a net receiver of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Changes in exchange rates, and in particular a strengthening of the U.S. dollar, will negatively affect the Company’s net sales and gross margins as expressed in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in exchange rates may also affect the fair values of certain of the Company’s assets and liabilities. To protect against foreign exchange rate risk, the Company may use derivative instruments, offset exposures, or adjust local currency pricing of its products and services. However, the Company may choose to not hedge certain foreign currency exposures for a variety of reasons, including accounting considerations or prohibitive cost.
The Company applied a value-at-risk (“VAR”) model to its foreign currency derivative positions to assess the potential impact of fluctuations in exchange rates. The VAR model used a Monte Carlo simulation. The VAR is the maximum expected loss in fair value, for a given confidence interval, to the Company’s foreign currency derivative positions due to adverse movements in rates. Based on the results of the model, the Company estimates, with 95% confidence, a maximum one-day loss in fair value of $538 million and $669 million as of September 28, 2024 and September 30, 2023, respectively. Changes in the Company’s underlying foreign currency exposures, which were excluded from the assessment, generally offset changes in the fair values of the Company’s foreign currency derivatives.
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 27

133
Years ended
                                                                                         September 28,                 September 30,                 September 24,
                                                                                                  2024                          2023                          2022
Net income                                                                              $93,736                       $96,995                       $99,803       
Other comprehensive income/(loss):                                                                                                                                
Change in foreign currency translation, net of tax                                          395                         (765)                       (1,511)       
Change in unrealized gains/losses on derivative instruments, net of tax:                                                                                          
Change in fair value of derivative instruments                                            (832)                           323                         3,212       
Adjustment for net (gains)/losses realized and included in net income                   (1,337)                       (1,717)                       (1,074)       
Total change in unrealized gains/losses on derivative instruments                       (2,169)                       (1,394)                         2,138       
Change in unrealized gains/losses on marketable debt securities, net of tax:                                                                                      
Change in fair value of marketable debt securities                                        5,850                         1,563                      (12,104)       
Adjustment for net (gains)/losses realized and included in net income                       204                           253          205                        
Total change in unrealized gains/losses on marketable debt securities                     6,054                         1,816                      (11,899)       
Total other comprehensive income/(loss)                                                   4,280                         (343)                      (11,272)       
Total comprehensive income                                                              $98,016                       $96,652                       $88,531

148
Years ended
                                                                                                     September 28,                 September 30,                 September 24,
                                                                                                              2024                          2023                          2022
Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash and cash equivalents, beginning balances                $30,737                       $24,977                       $35,929       
Operating activities:                                                                                                                                                         
Net income                                                                                           93,736                        96,995                        99,803       
Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash generated by operating activities:                                                                                                
Depreciation and amortization                                                                        11,445                        11,519                        11,104       
Share-based compensation expense                                                                     11,688                        10,833                         9,038       
Other                                                                                               (2,266)                       (2,227)                         1,006       
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:                                                                                                                                  
Accounts receivable, net                                                                            (3,788)                       (1,688)                       (1,823)       
Vendor non-trade receivables                                                                        (1,356)                         1,271                       (7,520)       
Inventories                                                                                         (1,046)                       (1,618)                         1,484       
Other current and non-current assets                                                               (11,731)                       (5,684)                       (6,499)       
Accounts payable                                                                                      6,020                       (1,889)                         9,448       
Other current and non-current liabilities                                                            15,552                         3,031                         6,110       
Cash generated by operating activities                                                              118,254                       110,543                       122,151       
Investing activities:                                                                                                                                                         
Purchases of marketable securities                                                                 (48,656)                      (29,513)                      (76,923)       
Proceeds from maturities of marketable securities                                                    51,211                        39,686                        29,917       
Proceeds from sales of marketable securities                                                         11,135                         5,828                        37,446       
Payments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment                                           (9,447)                      (10,959)                      (10,708)       
Other                                                                                               (1,308)                       (1,337)                       (2,086)       
Cash generated by/(used in) investing activities                                                      2,935                         3,705                      (22,354)       
Financing activities:                                                                                                                                                         
Payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards                                 (5,441)                       (5,431)                       (6,223)       
Payments for dividends and dividend equivalents                                                    (15,234)                      (15,025)                      (14,841)       
Repurchases of common stock                                                                        (94,949)                      (77,550)                      (89,402)       
Proceeds from issuance of term debt, net                                                                  —                         5,228                         5,465       
Repayments of term debt                                                                             (9,958)                      (11,151)                       (9,543)       
Proceeds from/(Repayments of) commercial paper, net                                                   3,960                       (3,978)                         3,955       
Other                                                                                                 (361)                         (581)                         (160)       
Cash used in financing activities                                                                 (121,983)                     (108,488)                     (110,749)       
Increase/(Decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash and cash equivalents               (794)                         5,760                      (10,952)       
Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash and cash equivalents, ending balances                   $29,943                       $30,737                       $24,977       
Supplemental cash flow disclosure:                                                                                                                                            
Cash paid for income taxes, net                                                                     $26,102                       $18,679                       $19,573

159
Income Taxes
The Company records certain deferred tax assets and liabilities in connection with the minimum tax on certain foreign earnings created by the TCJA.

175
Derivative Instruments and Hedging
The Company may use derivative instruments to partially offset its business exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risk. However, the Company may choose not to hedge certain exposures for a variety of reasons including accounting considerations or the prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures. There can be no assurance the hedges will offset more than a portion of the financial impact resulting from movements in foreign exchange or interest rates.
The Company classifies cash flows related to derivative instruments in the same section of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as the items being hedged, which are generally classified as operating activities.
Foreign Exchange Rate Risk
To protect gross margins from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, the Company may use forwards, options or other instruments, and may designate these instruments as cash flow hedges. The Company generally hedges portions of its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenue and inventory purchases, typically for up to 12 months.
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 37


To protect the Company’s foreign currency–denominated term debt or marketable securities from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, the Company may use forwards, cross-currency swaps or other instruments. The Company designates these instruments as either cash flow or fair value hedges. As of September 28, 2024, the maximum length of time over which the Company is hedging its exposure to the variability in future cash flows for term debt–related foreign currency transactions is 18 years.
The Company may also use derivative instruments that are not designated as accounting hedges to protect gross margins from certain fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, as well as to offset a portion of the foreign currency gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of certain assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies.
Interest Rate Risk
To protect the Company’s term debt or marketable securities from fluctuations in interest rates, the Company may use interest rate swaps, options or other instruments. The Company designates these instruments as either cash flow or fair value hedges.

177
2024                                                                             2023                   
Derivative instruments designated as accounting hedges:                                                 
Foreign exchange contracts                                          $64,069                   $74,730   
Interest rate contracts                                             $14,575                   $19,375   
Derivative instruments not designated as accounting hedges:                                             
Foreign exchange contracts                                          $91,493                  $104,777

193
European Commission State Aid Decision
On August 30, 2016, the Commission announced its decision that Ireland granted state aid to the Company by providing tax opinions in 1991 and 2007 concerning the tax allocation of profits of the Irish branches of two subsidiaries of the Company (the “State Aid Decision”). The State Aid Decision ordered Ireland to calculate and recover additional taxes from the Company for the period June 2003 through December 2014. Irish legislative changes, effective as of January 2015, eliminated the application of the tax opinions from that date forward. The recovery amount was calculated to be €13.1 billion, plus interest of €1.2 billion.
From time to time, the Company requested approval from the Irish Minister for Finance to reduce the recovery amount for certain taxes paid to other countries. As of September 28, 2024, the adjusted recovery amount of €12.7 billion plus interest of €1.2 billion was held in escrow and restricted from general use. The total balance of the escrow, including net unrealized investment gains, was €14.2 billion or $15.8 billion as of September 28, 2024, of which $2.6 billion was classified as cash and cash equivalents and $13.2 billion was classified as current marketable securities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Refer to the Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities section of Note 4, “Financial Instruments” for more information.
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 39


The Company and Ireland appealed the State Aid Decision to the General Court of the Court of Justice of the European Union (the “General Court”). On July 15, 2020, the General Court annulled the State Aid Decision. On September 25, 2020, the Commission appealed the General Court’s decision to the European Court of Justice (the “ECJ”) and a hearing was held on May 23, 2023. On September 10, 2024, the ECJ announced that it had set aside the 2020 judgment of the General Court and confirmed the Commission’s 2016 State Aid Decision. As a result, during the fourth quarter of 2024 the Company recorded a one-time income tax charge of $10.2 billion, net, which represents $15.8 billion payable to Ireland via release of the escrow, partially offset by a U.S. foreign tax credit of $4.8 billion and a decrease in unrecognized tax benefits of $823 million.
Provision for Income Taxes and Effective Tax Rate
The provision for income taxes for 2024, 2023 and 2022, consisted of the following (in millions):

194
2024                                                             2023                    2022
Federal:                                                                                     
Current                             $5,571                  $9,445                  $7,890   
Deferred                           (3,080)                 (3,644)                 (2,265)   
Total                                2,491                   5,801                   5,625   
State:                                                                                       
Current                              1,726                   1,570                   1,519   
Deferred                             (298)                    (49)                      84   
Total                                1,428                   1,521                   1,603   
Foreign:                                                                                     
Current                             25,483                   8,750                   8,996   
Deferred                               347                     669                   3,076   
Total                               25,830                   9,419                  12,072   
Provision for income taxes         $29,749                 $16,741                 $19,300

195
Foreign pretax earnings were $77.3 billion, $72.9 billion and $71.3 billion in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
A reconciliation of the provision for income taxes to the amount computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate (21% in 2024, 2023 and 2022) to income before provision for income taxes for 2024, 2023 and 2022, is as follows (dollars in millions):

196
2024                                                                           2023                     2022
Computed expected tax                          $25,932                  $23,885                  $25,012    
State taxes, net of federal effect               1,162                    1,124                    1,518    
Impact of the State Aid Decision                10,246                        —                        —    
Earnings of foreign subsidiaries               (5,311)                  (5,744)                  (4,366)    
Research and development credit, net           (1,397)                  (1,212)                  (1,153)    
Excess tax benefits from equity awards           (893)                  (1,120)                  (1,871)    
Other                                               10                    (192)                      160    
Provision for income taxes                     $29,749                  $16,741                  $19,300    
Effective tax rate                                24.1   %                 14.7   %                 16.2   %

199
2024                                                                         2023
Deferred tax assets:                                                             
Capitalized research and development           $10,739                  $6,294   
Tax credit carryforwards                         8,856                   8,302   
Accrued liabilities and other reserves           6,114                   6,365   
Deferred revenue                                 3,413                   4,571   
Lease liabilities                                2,410                   2,421   
Unrealized losses                                1,173                   2,447   
Other                                            2,168                   2,343   
Total deferred tax assets                       34,873                  32,743   
Less: Valuation allowance                      (8,866)                 (8,374)   
Total deferred tax assets, net                  26,007                  24,369   
Deferred tax liabilities:                                                        
Depreciation                                     2,551                   1,998   
Right-of-use assets                              2,125                   2,179   
Minimum tax on foreign earnings                  1,674                   1,940   
Unrealized gains                                     —                     511   
Other                                              455                     490   
Total deferred tax liabilities                   6,805                   7,118   
Net deferred tax assets                        $19,202                 $17,251

200
As of September 28, 2024, the Company had $5.1 billion in foreign tax credit carryforwards in Ireland and $3.6 billion in California R&D credit carryforwards, both of which can be carried forward indefinitely. A valuation allowance has been recorded for the credit carryforwards and a portion of other temporary differences.

204
The Company is subject to taxation and files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and many state and foreign jurisdictions. Tax years after 2017 for the U.S. federal jurisdiction, and after 2014 in certain major foreign jurisdictions, remain subject to examination. Although the timing of resolution or closure of examinations is not certain, the Company believes it is reasonably possible that its gross unrecognized tax benefits could decrease between approximately $5 billion and $13 billion in the next 12 months, primarily related to intercompany transfer pricing and deemed repatriation tax.

218
To manage interest rate risk on certain of its U.S. dollar–denominated fixed-rate notes, the Company uses interest rate swaps to effectively convert the fixed interest rates to floating interest rates on a portion of these notes. Additionally, to manage foreign exchange rate risk on certain of its foreign currency–denominated notes, the Company uses cross-currency swaps to effectively convert these notes to U.S. dollar–denominated notes.
The effective interest rates for the Notes include the interest on the Notes, amortization of the discount or premium and, if applicable, adjustments related to hedging.
The future principal payments for the Company’s Notes as of September 28, 2024, are as follows (in millions):

246
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Apple Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Apple Inc. (the “Company”) as of September 28, 2024 and September 30, 2023, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 28, 2024, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “financial statements”). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at September 28, 2024 and September 30, 2023, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 28, 2024, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (“PCAOB”), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of September 28, 2024, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated November 1, 2024 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of the critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the account or disclosure to which it relates.

247
Uncertain Tax Positions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Description of the Matter        As discussed in Note 7 to the financial statements, the Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. As of September 28, 2024, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was $22.0 billion, of which $10.8 billion, if recognized, would impact the Company’s effective tax rate. In accounting for some of the uncertain tax positions, the Company uses significant judgment in the interpretation and application of GAAP and complex domestic and international tax laws.Auditing management’s evaluation of whether an uncertain tax position is more likely than not to be sustained and the measurement of the benefit of various tax positions can be complex, involves significant judgment, and is based on interpretations of tax laws and legal rulings.

249
How We Addressed the       We tested controls relating to the evaluation of uncertain tax positions, including controls over management’s assessment as to whether tax positions are more likely than not to be sustained, management’s process to measure the benefit of its tax positions that qualify for recognition, and the related disclosures.We evaluated the Company’s assessment of which tax positions are more likely than not to be sustained and the related measurement of the amount of tax benefit that qualifies for recognition. Our audit procedures included, among others, reading and evaluating management’s assumptions and analysis, and, as applicable, the Company’s communications with taxing authorities, that detailed the basis and technical merits of the uncertain tax positions. We involved our tax subject matter resources in assessing the technical merits of certain of the Company’s tax positions based on our knowledge of relevant tax laws and experience with related taxing authorities. For a certain tax position, we also received an external legal counsel confirmation letter and discussed the matter with external advisors and the Company’s tax personnel. In addition, we evaluated the Company’s disclosure in relation to these matters included in Note 7 to the financial statements.     
Matter in Our Audit

255
Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
We have audited Apple Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of September 28, 2024, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the “COSO criteria”). In our opinion, Apple Inc. (the “Company”) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 28, 2024, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (“PCAOB”), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of September 28, 2024 and September 30, 2023, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 28, 2024, and the related notes and our report dated November 1, 2024 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

260
Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
None.

261
Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Based on an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, the Company’s principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act were effective as of September 28, 2024 to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is (i) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms and (ii) accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Inherent Limitations over Internal Controls
The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:

262
(i)pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the Company’s assets;
(ii)provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and that the Company’s receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of the Company’s management and directors; and
(iii)provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that the Company’s internal controls will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of internal controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Also, any evaluation of the effectiveness of controls in future periods are subject to the risk that those internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in business conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

263
Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act). Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria set forth in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework). Based on the Company’s assessment, management has concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 28, 2024 to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued an audit report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, which appears in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of 2024, which were identified in connection with management’s evaluation required by paragraph (d) of Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 under the Exchange Act, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 51

265
Item 9C.    Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections